---
layout: post
title: "Hussar 2017 impressions"
date: 2017-11-18 9:00:00 +0200
comments: True
---

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;

Couple of thoughts about the biggest miniature painting event in Poland, Hussar 2017, that I wanted to share.

First impressions
Disclaimer: that was my first time at the event, so unfortunately I can't compare it with previous editions. Firstly, the atmosphere there is really good, I couldn't feel any negative vibes caused by competetive nature of the event, maybe that's to do with the fact that most if not all regular participants know each other very well, as well as the judges. Submitting the pieces was quick and easy, everything was well prepared, yet very informal (I didn't expect approvative comments about my miniature boobs :)). The display area was ok, not very big but sufficient, nice cabinets with lots of space, supposedly this year had the biggest count of entries ever, nevertheless the cabinents weren't overcrowded and everything was properly exposed. Tried to make some photos but the glass walls made it nearly impossible (good photos are to be found on Hussar's facebook profile). This area also sported booths from miniaturebases.pl, Karol Rudyk art and valhalla-figurki.pl (not sure about last one). I've decided to limit my purchases, so got only some cool plinths from miniaturebases, too much stuff to paint in my drawers ;)

Workshops
Now let's go to workshops, which were held in another building with lots of space, and I must say the rooms were really good prepared (good daylight lamps, wet palletes included!). Unfortunately painting demos were really a pain - the camera was out of focus and the painted figure was either carried around the room after each stage (Marinas workshop), or everyone crowded around the painter (Lan's). First one with Marina Ringill was about paiting female faces, after some theoretical intro and fast demo she was walking around the "classroom" providing feedback & advise on how to progress on our own figures. That really worked well, and this proves for me that 1-1 couching is something one could really benefit from. The main lessons for me regarding female faces is more midtones, triangle of lightness (cheeks-nose-chin) and using orange for blush, also not to be afraid to paint against the sculpt - sometimes you have to ignore deep crevices if the face is sculpted that way in order to create more delicate look. Overall Marina is a really helpful and nice person, and I'd highly recommend to attend to her workshop if you have such occasion.

Lan's focus was purely NMM steel. This one was also interesting, he described his way of painting, demonstrated creating a steel texture with small horizontal lines, how to add lights, glaze it depending on environment you want to simulate. Unfortunately there was no practical part. The biggest surprise is that he doesn't use wet pallete/retarders, it makes me wonder how can his works be so technically perfect and smooth without it. Overall I liked Marina's workshop better mostly due to practical part present, but I`m glad I went to this one too, it encouraged me to practice NMM more. Can't wait to see what Paweł Makuch prepares next year, I've heard that's its customary that grand-prix winner prepares some workshop for next hussar.

There was also a speed painting contest that I didn't make it to, next year arriving on friday is a must! 

Competition level
Absurdly high, it didn't surprise my 4 entries didn't get anything. From what I saw the works are better both technically and artistically from the ones at Golden Demon. There were lots of works that were painted really good, had a cool idea and great execution, and they didn't even get honorable mentions. I feel the biggest chance for people new to this competition to even get a HM was perhaps the unit category, there were just not-so-many high profile works there (the winning one by Krzysztof Kobaltczyk was of course stunning). In general blending perfection is a must at Hussar, as lots of painters are professionals. For next year I`ll try to paint one entry for each category, with most effort dedicated to said unit category, and see where it gets me. 

Afterparty
Being a newcomer and Hussar's first timer, at the beginning it was hard for an introvert like me to get out and talk with people (from this group of great painters I've met only Adam Hałon once in Wrocław), but after some % the problem disapearred. They are really nice people, glad to help and funny, what's great some of them encouraged me to send in my works for critique. It was great to see and talk to people whose works I've admired for a good couple of years. 

Overall great event, came back home extremely inspired, definately coming next year. If you paint miniatures, that is the event to be, even if you don't submit any works.

Cheers!